README.md, before:

The script creates files to be used for the exercises at the end in comments (thanks to u/7lawa for his feedback):

# Exercises

## Archives
1. create a **.tar.gz** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
2. create a **.tar.bzip2** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
3. create a **.tar.xz** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
4. create a **.cpio** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
5. list the files in the **.tar.gz** archive.
5. extract the **.tar.gz** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of _./playground/extract_.
6. extract the **.tar.bzip2** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of _./playground/extract_.
7. extract the **.tar.xz** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of ./playground/extract.
8. extract the **.cpio** archive in ./playground/extract/, then compare the content of _./playground/extract with _./playground/filepool_. Leave the content of ./playground/extract to backup the _./playground/filepool_ directory.

## Find and files
1. move all the files owned by **user1** in _./playground/filepool_ to _./playground/user1_. Check the resisting files with `lsattr`.
10. compare the directories _./playground/user1_ and _./playground/user1ref_.
11. move all the files in _./playground/filepool_ with spaces in their names in _./playground/filenameswithspaces_, keeping ownership, with the `rsync --remove-source-files` command only (`find -name "* *" -exec rsync -v -o -g --remove-source-files {} destdir/ \;`). Copy them back to _./playground/filepool_ with the `find | xargs` commands keeping ownership too (`find -name "* *" -print0 | xargs -0 -I{} cp -a {} destdir/`).
12. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ with no user, write the list in _./playground/listfile.txt_.
13. keeping the ownership, copy the files owned by **user2** in _./playground/filepool_ to _./playground/user2_ which have permission 1246.
14. compare the directories _./playground/user2_ and _./playground/user2ref_ (`diff -q`).
15. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3** and newer than _./playground/filepool/user3_file2_sugo1222.txt_.
16. make the list of all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by user3 and try to overwrite the file _./playground/user1ref/fileadded.txt_ with the list (check the `lsattr` attributes). Try to append the list.
17. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3** which are readable by somebody (their owner, or their group, or anybody else). Count these files and compare with the total number of files owned by **user3**. Long list the missing files to check.
18. remove the sticky bit of files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3**.
20. set the setuid bit of files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3**. With `find ... \! ...` or `find ... -not ...`, list the files which do not have the setuid bit activated. Check their attributes with `lsattr` (`for file in $(find ./playground/filepool/ -user user3 -not -perm /1000 -exec ls {} \+) ; do sudo lsattr $file ; done`).
20. change the ACL on file _./playground/testacl.txt_ to give read privilege to **user1**, write privilege to **user2**. Remove the read privilege to __user1__.
21. search in _./playground/difffiles/_ one file which is different from the others.
22. define function `echoerr(){ python -c 'import os; os.write(1, b"ok\n"); os.write(2, b"error\n")';}`, execute it printing only the stdout (`echoerr 2> /dev/null`), then only the stderr, and then overwrite|append both stdout and stderr to _./playground/stdfile.txt_ using both syntaxes `&>> file` and `>> file 2>&1`.
23. using `sed`, print only the lines from 8 to 12 included in _./playground/phonenumber.txt_ in the terminal. Still with `sed` remove lines 15 to the end of the file (`sed -i '15,??'`). Using both `sed` without option `-E` and with the option, print all the lines with a phone number (`[1-9]{3}-...`). Using `sed` without option `-E`, add parens around the area code (`xyz-` becomes `(xyz)-`) rewriting the file (option `-i`) and using `sed -E` remove the parens rewriting the file. Print all the odd-numbered lines (example in `man sed`).
24. find to which package the file `/etc/ssh/ssh_config` belongs.

## Groups and users
1. create a group **grp1**, then add **user1**, **user2**, **user3** to this group all in one command (`man gpasswd`, option `-M`).
23. make a directory _./playground/grp1dir_ owned by **grp1** and activate the **getuid** bit on it. Check the **getuid** bit by creating a file in the directory.
24. remove **user2** from group **grp1**, add it again with a different command than previously (`usermod`).
25. run _./playground/testsetuid.out_ as **user1** <span style="text-decoration: underline">in its directory</span>, then as **user2**. Set the **setuid** to 1 and then run it again as **user2**.
26. remove the execution privileges on file _./playground/testsetuid.out_ to other users and try to run it with __user3__. Change the ACL on file _./playground/testsetuid.out_ to give execution privilege to **grp1**, and then execute it with **user3** (beware of the mask: `setfacl -m m::x testsetuid.out`. The ACL hasn't absolute priority: if you remove the group execution with `chmod g-x`, the ACL won't fix it because the mask cancels the ACL).
<!-- 27. add __user3__ to the sudo group and allow __user2__ to run any command without password. -->
27. lock and then unlock __user3__.

## System
1. search in _/var/log_ for the user who tried the 'sudo' command without permission.
30. grant **user1** with root privileges with no password, and add **user2** to the **sudoers** group.
31. set the number of processes **user3** can run to infinity.
32. switch the system to start at *runlevel 3* (**multi-user.target** in systemd), then switch back to *runlevel 5* (**graphical.target**). WARNING: NEVER 0 or 6.
33. create a service **myservice** from scratch that writes the date and time in */tmp/myservice.txt* both when it starts and when it stops (maybe `sleep 5` in between).
38. create a systemd timer for __myservice__ (`/lib/systemd/system/myservice.timer`, see https://opensource.com/article/20/7/systemd-timers to run it every minute). Start the timer service and add a cronjob to append the string '----------' in `/tmp/myservice.txt` every **2** minutes (`crontab -e`, and `*/2 * * * * echo ...`). Watch it with `watch tail /tmp/myservice.txt`.
34. create an **ext4** partition on a loopfile image, set a label, mount it manually, and mount it automatically in */etc/fstab* with the label (`dd if=/dev/zero of=imgfile bs=1M count=100 ; losetup -f ; losetup /dev/loopX imgfile ; mkfs.ext4 /dev/loopX ; man tune2fs`).
35. add quotas to the __ext4__ partition for **user1**, check the quotas with `dd ... of=somefileX` (`man quota`).
36. create an **xfs** partition on a loopfile image, set a label, mount it manually, and mount it automatically in */etc/fstab* with the label (`dd if=/dev/zero of=imgfile bs=1M count=100 ; losetup -f ; losetup /dev/loopX imgfile ; mkfs.xfs /dev/loopX ; man xfs_admin`).
37. add quotas to the **xfs** partition for **user1**, check the quotas with `dd` (`man xfs_quota`).

## Networking
1. run an http local website **mysite.com** at _/var/www/mysite/index.html_ on **port 54321** (changes in _/etc/hosts_, _/etc/apache2/apache2.conf_, _/etc/apache2/ports.conf_, _/etc/apache2/sites-available/mysite_, and _/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/mysite_ symlink. See for example https://youtu.be/KP5F1Leu8S8). Check with `lynx -dump localhost:54321` and `lynx -dump mysite.com`.
40. run a docker http website on **port 12345** at _~/html/docker/index.html_ (`docker run -dti --name ? -p ??:80 -v ??:/usr/local/apache2/htdocs/ httpd`). Delete the container and create the same one with a restart policy ('--restart' in `man docker-run`). Check with `lynx`.
41. download an **Alpine iso** image with `wget`, run a virtual machine with command `virt-install` and the iso (examples at the end of the man page. Here is one: `virt-install --name tiny --connect qemu:///session --disk size=1 --cdrom alpine-standard-3.14.2-x86.iso`), clone it with `virt-clone`, list it with `virsh`, stop it with `virsh`, start it again, destroy it, list it again, and undefine it (look for 'undefine' in `man virsh`).

## Raid, Lvm, and crypto
1. make four image files, potentially with different sizes: `dd if=/dev/zero of=./imagefileX bs=1M count=100`.
2. link them to loop partitions: `losetup --find --show imagefileX`.
2. format the partitions for LVM: `fdisk /dev/loopX`, `p`, `n`, `enter`, `enter`, `enter`, `t`, `8e`, `w`.
3. declare four physical volumes: `pvcreate /dev/loopXp1 /dev/loopX+1p1 /dev /dev/loopX+2p1 /dev/loopX+3p1`.
4. make a virtual group with the four physical volumes: `vgcreate myvg /dev/loopX ...`.
5. split the virtual group in four logical volumes with **same** size: retrieve the number of physical extents (PEs) with `vgdisplay | grep myvg "Total PE"` and divide this number n by 4 to create the LVs with `lvcreate myvg --name mylv1 -l n/4 ; lvcreate myvg --name mylv2 -l n/4 ; ...`.
6. format the logical volumes for Raid: `fdisk /dev/myvg/mylvX`, `p`, `n`, `enter`, `enter`, `enter`, `t`, `fd`, `w`. It may take to run `partprobe` to refresh the partition table.
7. make two Raid0 with the four logical volumes: `mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=0 --raid-devices=2 /dev/myvg/mylv1 /dev/myvg/mylv2 ; ... /dev/md1 ...`
8. format the Raid0 partitions for LVM: `fdisk /dev/mdX`, ..., `8e`.
9. make a physical volume with each Raid0 partition: `pvcreate /dev/mdXp1 /dev/mdX+1p1`
10. make a virtual group with the physical Raid0 volumes: `vgcreate myraidvg /dev/md0p1 /dev/md1p1`
11. split the virtual group into two logical volumes of same size: `lvcreate myraidvg --name myraidlv1 -l 50%FREE ; lvcreate myraidvg --name myraidlv2 -l 100%FREE`.
12. format the logical volumes for Raid: `fdisk /dev/myraidvg/myraidlvX`. It may take to run `partprobe` to refresh the partition table.
13. make one Raid1 with the two logical volumes: `mdadm --create /dev/mdY --level=1  --raid-devices=2 /dev/myraidvg/myraidlv1 /dev/myraidvg/myraidlv2`.
14. make a crypo partition with the Raid1 partition: `cryptsetup luksFormat /dev/mdY`.
15. open it: `cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/mdY crytoraid`.
16. format it in ext4: `mkfs -t ext4 /dev/mapper/crytoraid`.
17. mount it at `/secret`: `mount /dev/mapper/cryptoraid /secret`.
18. make a crypto file: `echo 'cryptotest' > /secret/cryptofile`.
19. unmount the crypto partition, close it, reopen it under a different name, remount it and check the file: `umount /secret ; cryptsetup luksClose crytoraid ; cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/mdY othername ; mount /dev/mapper/othername /secret ; cat /secret/cryptofile`.
1. make a swapfile and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
2. make a crypto swapfile and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
3. make a crypto partition on a simple image file and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
4. make a simple Raid1, and mount it both manually and with `mount -a`.
5. make a simple logical volume, and mount it both manually and with `mount -a`.
6. clean the `/etc/fstab` file.

## End
1. clean everything: `sudo find -type f -exec chattr -i {} \+ ; sudo rm -rf playground`.
2. repeat until confident.

-----

# Other resources
## Find
 - https://geekflare.com/linux-find-commands/
 - https://www.tecmint.com/35-practical-examples-of-linux-find-command/

## Awk
- http://evc-cit.info/cit052/awk_tutorial.html

## Other commands
- http://evc-cit.info/cit052/
- remaking the workshop archive manually: https://www.csc.fi/documents/200270/272439/Linux-command-line-exercises_Linux%2BCSC-Quick-Reference.pdf/0d3d1813-238a-4aed-a1e3-1a3d57a243f3
- https://devconnected.com/30-linux-processes-exercises-for-sysadmins/

## AppArmor
- https://medium.com/information-and-technology/so-what-is-apparmor-64d7ae211ed

## Xfs labeling and quotas
- https://medium.com/shehuawwal/how-to-label-ext4-and-xfs-file-system-in-linux-356f56e4cae2
- https://www.golinuxcloud.com/configure-enable-disable-xfs-quota-grace-time/
- non xfs quotas: http://www.yolinux.com/TUTORIALS/LinuxTutorialQuotas.html

## Virsh undefine
- https://bobcares.com/blog/virsh-command-to-delete-a-vm/
- https://serverfault.com/questions/363674/managing-qcow2-images-with-virsh

## Run a command as another user
- https://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/command-line-hacks/linux-run-command-as-different-user/

## Forgot a docker option
- https://www.digitalocean.com/community/questions/how-to-adjust-docker-container-run-options

## Password set to an empty string
- https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/192945/user-without-a-password-how-can-one-login-into-that-account-from-a-non-root-ac

## Working with files in C (setuid for the script)
- https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-file-input-output

Commit message:

added instructions to use virtual box and rocky linux

README.md, after:

This is a fork of https://gitlab.com/thomasbb-group/lfcs-training
The script creates files to be used for the exercises at the end in comments (thanks to u/7lawa for his feedback):

The Vagrantfile, is set to use KVM as defualt, commant out that line if you want to use virtual box
The Vagrantfile is set to use Ubuntu 2204 as default, comment out ubuntu and remove # if you wish to use Rocky linux

# Exercises

## Archives
1. create a **.tar.gz** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
2. create a **.tar.bzip2** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
3. create a **.tar.xz** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
4. create a **.cpio** archive of _./playground/filepool_ and put it in _./playground/archives_.
5. list the files in the **.tar.gz** archive.
5. extract the **.tar.gz** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of _./playground/extract_.
6. extract the **.tar.bzip2** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of _./playground/extract_.
7. extract the **.tar.xz** archive in _./playground/extract/_, then compare the content of _./playground/extract_ with _./playground/filepool_. Delete the content of ./playground/extract.
8. extract the **.cpio** archive in ./playground/extract/, then compare the content of _./playground/extract with _./playground/filepool_. Leave the content of ./playground/extract to backup the _./playground/filepool_ directory.

## Find and files
1. move all the files owned by **user1** in _./playground/filepool_ to _./playground/user1_. Check the resisting files with `lsattr`.
10. compare the directories _./playground/user1_ and _./playground/user1ref_.
11. move all the files in _./playground/filepool_ with spaces in their names in _./playground/filenameswithspaces_, keeping ownership, with the `rsync --remove-source-files` command only (`find -name "* *" -exec rsync -v -o -g --remove-source-files {} destdir/ \;`). Copy them back to _./playground/filepool_ with the `find | xargs` commands keeping ownership too (`find -name "* *" -print0 | xargs -0 -I{} cp -a {} destdir/`).
12. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ with no user, write the list in _./playground/listfile.txt_.
13. keeping the ownership, copy the files owned by **user2** in _./playground/filepool_ to _./playground/user2_ which have permission 1246.
14. compare the directories _./playground/user2_ and _./playground/user2ref_ (`diff -q`).
15. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3** and newer than _./playground/filepool/user3_file2_sugo1222.txt_.
16. make the list of all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by user3 and try to overwrite the file _./playground/user1ref/fileadded.txt_ with the list (check the `lsattr` attributes). Try to append the list.
17. find all the files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3** which are readable by somebody (their owner, or their group, or anybody else). Count these files and compare with the total number of files owned by **user3**. Long list the missing files to check.
18. remove the sticky bit of files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3**.
20. set the setuid bit of files in _./playground/filepool_ owned by **user3**. With `find ... \! ...` or `find ... -not ...`, list the files which do not have the setuid bit activated. Check their attributes with `lsattr` (`for file in $(find ./playground/filepool/ -user user3 -not -perm /1000 -exec ls {} \+) ; do sudo lsattr $file ; done`).
20. change the ACL on file _./playground/testacl.txt_ to give read privilege to **user1**, write privilege to **user2**. Remove the read privilege to __user1__.
21. search in _./playground/difffiles/_ one file which is different from the others.
22. define function `echoerr(){ python -c 'import os; os.write(1, b"ok\n"); os.write(2, b"error\n")';}`, execute it printing only the stdout (`echoerr 2> /dev/null`), then only the stderr, and then overwrite|append both stdout and stderr to _./playground/stdfile.txt_ using both syntaxes `&>> file` and `>> file 2>&1`.
23. using `sed`, print only the lines from 8 to 12 included in _./playground/phonenumber.txt_ in the terminal. Still with `sed` remove lines 15 to the end of the file (`sed -i '15,??'`). Using both `sed` without option `-E` and with the option, print all the lines with a phone number (`[1-9]{3}-...`). Using `sed` without option `-E`, add parens around the area code (`xyz-` becomes `(xyz)-`) rewriting the file (option `-i`) and using `sed -E` remove the parens rewriting the file. Print all the odd-numbered lines (example in `man sed`).
24. find to which package the file `/etc/ssh/ssh_config` belongs.

## Groups and users
1. create a group **grp1**, then add **user1**, **user2**, **user3** to this group all in one command (`man gpasswd`, option `-M`).
23. make a directory _./playground/grp1dir_ owned by **grp1** and activate the **getuid** bit on it. Check the **getuid** bit by creating a file in the directory.
24. remove **user2** from group **grp1**, add it again with a different command than previously (`usermod`).
25. run _./playground/testsetuid.out_ as **user1** <span style="text-decoration: underline">in its directory</span>, then as **user2**. Set the **setuid** to 1 and then run it again as **user2**.
26. remove the execution privileges on file _./playground/testsetuid.out_ to other users and try to run it with __user3__. Change the ACL on file _./playground/testsetuid.out_ to give execution privilege to **grp1**, and then execute it with **user3** (beware of the mask: `setfacl -m m::x testsetuid.out`. The ACL hasn't absolute priority: if you remove the group execution with `chmod g-x`, the ACL won't fix it because the mask cancels the ACL).
<!-- 27. add __user3__ to the sudo group and allow __user2__ to run any command without password. -->
27. lock and then unlock __user3__.

## System
1. search in _/var/log_ for the user who tried the 'sudo' command without permission.
30. grant **user1** with root privileges with no password, and add **user2** to the **sudoers** group.
31. set the number of processes **user3** can run to infinity.
32. switch the system to start at *runlevel 3* (**multi-user.target** in systemd), then switch back to *runlevel 5* (**graphical.target**). WARNING: NEVER 0 or 6.
33. create a service **myservice** from scratch that writes the date and time in */tmp/myservice.txt* both when it starts and when it stops (maybe `sleep 5` in between).
38. create a systemd timer for __myservice__ (`/lib/systemd/system/myservice.timer`, see https://opensource.com/article/20/7/systemd-timers to run it every minute). Start the timer service and add a cronjob to append the string '----------' in `/tmp/myservice.txt` every **2** minutes (`crontab -e`, and `*/2 * * * * echo ...`). Watch it with `watch tail /tmp/myservice.txt`.
34. create an **ext4** partition on a loopfile image, set a label, mount it manually, and mount it automatically in */etc/fstab* with the label (`dd if=/dev/zero of=imgfile bs=1M count=100 ; losetup -f ; losetup /dev/loopX imgfile ; mkfs.ext4 /dev/loopX ; man tune2fs`).
35. add quotas to the __ext4__ partition for **user1**, check the quotas with `dd ... of=somefileX` (`man quota`).
36. create an **xfs** partition on a loopfile image, set a label, mount it manually, and mount it automatically in */etc/fstab* with the label (`dd if=/dev/zero of=imgfile bs=1M count=100 ; losetup -f ; losetup /dev/loopX imgfile ; mkfs.xfs /dev/loopX ; man xfs_admin`).
37. add quotas to the **xfs** partition for **user1**, check the quotas with `dd` (`man xfs_quota`).

## Networking
1. run an http local website **mysite.com** at _/var/www/mysite/index.html_ on **port 54321** (changes in _/etc/hosts_, _/etc/apache2/apache2.conf_, _/etc/apache2/ports.conf_, _/etc/apache2/sites-available/mysite_, and _/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/mysite_ symlink. See for example https://youtu.be/KP5F1Leu8S8). Check with `lynx -dump localhost:54321` and `lynx -dump mysite.com`.
40. run a docker http website on **port 12345** at _~/html/docker/index.html_ (`docker run -dti --name ? -p ??:80 -v ??:/usr/local/apache2/htdocs/ httpd`). Delete the container and create the same one with a restart policy ('--restart' in `man docker-run`). Check with `lynx`.
41. download an **Alpine iso** image with `wget`, run a virtual machine with command `virt-install` and the iso (examples at the end of the man page. Here is one: `virt-install --name tiny --connect qemu:///session --disk size=1 --cdrom alpine-standard-3.14.2-x86.iso`), clone it with `virt-clone`, list it with `virsh`, stop it with `virsh`, start it again, destroy it, list it again, and undefine it (look for 'undefine' in `man virsh`).

## Raid, Lvm, and crypto
1. make four image files, potentially with different sizes: `dd if=/dev/zero of=./imagefileX bs=1M count=100`.
2. link them to loop partitions: `losetup --find --show imagefileX`.
2. format the partitions for LVM: `fdisk /dev/loopX`, `p`, `n`, `enter`, `enter`, `enter`, `t`, `8e`, `w`.
3. declare four physical volumes: `pvcreate /dev/loopXp1 /dev/loopX+1p1 /dev /dev/loopX+2p1 /dev/loopX+3p1`.
4. make a virtual group with the four physical volumes: `vgcreate myvg /dev/loopX ...`.
5. split the virtual group in four logical volumes with **same** size: retrieve the number of physical extents (PEs) with `vgdisplay | grep myvg "Total PE"` and divide this number n by 4 to create the LVs with `lvcreate myvg --name mylv1 -l n/4 ; lvcreate myvg --name mylv2 -l n/4 ; ...`.
6. format the logical volumes for Raid: `fdisk /dev/myvg/mylvX`, `p`, `n`, `enter`, `enter`, `enter`, `t`, `fd`, `w`. It may take to run `partprobe` to refresh the partition table.
7. make two Raid0 with the four logical volumes: `mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=0 --raid-devices=2 /dev/myvg/mylv1 /dev/myvg/mylv2 ; ... /dev/md1 ...`
8. format the Raid0 partitions for LVM: `fdisk /dev/mdX`, ..., `8e`.
9. make a physical volume with each Raid0 partition: `pvcreate /dev/mdXp1 /dev/mdX+1p1`
10. make a virtual group with the physical Raid0 volumes: `vgcreate myraidvg /dev/md0p1 /dev/md1p1`
11. split the virtual group into two logical volumes of same size: `lvcreate myraidvg --name myraidlv1 -l 50%FREE ; lvcreate myraidvg --name myraidlv2 -l 100%FREE`.
12. format the logical volumes for Raid: `fdisk /dev/myraidvg/myraidlvX`. It may take to run `partprobe` to refresh the partition table.
13. make one Raid1 with the two logical volumes: `mdadm --create /dev/mdY --level=1  --raid-devices=2 /dev/myraidvg/myraidlv1 /dev/myraidvg/myraidlv2`.
14. make a crypo partition with the Raid1 partition: `cryptsetup luksFormat /dev/mdY`.
15. open it: `cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/mdY crytoraid`.
16. format it in ext4: `mkfs -t ext4 /dev/mapper/crytoraid`.
17. mount it at `/secret`: `mount /dev/mapper/cryptoraid /secret`.
18. make a crypto file: `echo 'cryptotest' > /secret/cryptofile`.
19. unmount the crypto partition, close it, reopen it under a different name, remount it and check the file: `umount /secret ; cryptsetup luksClose crytoraid ; cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/mdY othername ; mount /dev/mapper/othername /secret ; cat /secret/cryptofile`.
1. make a swapfile and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
2. make a crypto swapfile and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
3. make a crypto partition on a simple image file and mount it, both manually and with `mount -a`.
4. make a simple Raid1, and mount it both manually and with `mount -a`.
5. make a simple logical volume, and mount it both manually and with `mount -a`.
6. clean the `/etc/fstab` file.

## End
1. clean everything: `sudo find -type f -exec chattr -i {} \+ ; sudo rm -rf playground`.
2. repeat until confident.

-----

# Other resources
## Find
 - https://geekflare.com/linux-find-commands/
 - https://www.tecmint.com/35-practical-examples-of-linux-find-command/

## Awk
- http://evc-cit.info/cit052/awk_tutorial.html

## Other commands
- http://evc-cit.info/cit052/
- remaking the workshop archive manually: https://www.csc.fi/documents/200270/272439/Linux-command-line-exercises_Linux%2BCSC-Quick-Reference.pdf/0d3d1813-238a-4aed-a1e3-1a3d57a243f3
- https://devconnected.com/30-linux-processes-exercises-for-sysadmins/

## AppArmor
- https://medium.com/information-and-technology/so-what-is-apparmor-64d7ae211ed

## Xfs labeling and quotas
- https://medium.com/shehuawwal/how-to-label-ext4-and-xfs-file-system-in-linux-356f56e4cae2
- https://www.golinuxcloud.com/configure-enable-disable-xfs-quota-grace-time/
- non xfs quotas: http://www.yolinux.com/TUTORIALS/LinuxTutorialQuotas.html

## Virsh undefine
- https://bobcares.com/blog/virsh-command-to-delete-a-vm/
- https://serverfault.com/questions/363674/managing-qcow2-images-with-virsh

## Run a command as another user
- https://www.cyberciti.biz/open-source/command-line-hacks/linux-run-command-as-different-user/

## Forgot a docker option
- https://www.digitalocean.com/community/questions/how-to-adjust-docker-container-run-options

## Password set to an empty string
- https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/192945/user-without-a-password-how-can-one-login-into-that-account-from-a-non-root-ac

## Working with files in C (setuid for the script)
- https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-file-input-output
